---
layout: post
title: "Day 17: Pforzheim to Wildberg (Final Day)"
---
<content:encoded><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Gerald, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">On the 17th night there were thunderstorms, as there had been on several previous nights, and much rain. After passing through CALW, owing to a slight inaccuracy in the map and the difficulty of finding signposts in the dark, a wrong turning was taken, and though the error was finally discovered, of the 18 miles covered that night, only 10 were in the right direction, and a halt was made about 2 miles short of WILDBERG. </h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">The following day was perhaps the most unpleasant of the whole trip. Body and clothes were soaked, and though secure enough in the forest from discovery, everything in it was saturated, sleep again impossible, and the only way to prevent shivering was to walk about. It may be pointed out that at this stage neither officer had either been warm, dry or had any sleep for three days.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Towards evening they decided to approach WILDBERG under cover, there to await darkness before going through the town, in order to be able to make a good start and try to make up some of the distance lost on the previous night. It was decided that if possible, they must reach NAGOLD that night, in order to be able to reach, and possibly cross, the frontier in 3 more nights.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">WILDBERG was approached stealthily, and a short walk made along the road to where some more trees afforded cover. At this point a civilian approached them from the front, then one from behind, and in order not to attract suspicion it was decided to keep on walking. The wood was quickly passed, but more civilians appeared, and very soon they were in the outskirts of the town, and the horrible fact was brought home to them that the only course open now was to walk through the town – and in broad daylight – the one thing they had been trying to avoid doing for the past 17 days!</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Although both had shaved that afternoon, they could not help looking suspicious. Clothes had become worn and soiled, and Keartland had very little seat left in his trousers. To the inhabitants of WILDBERG, many of whom were sitting around in the streets and smoking their evening pipe, the appearance of two such people at such a time, both carrying rucksacks, must have seemed peculiar. No one spoke, but many stared. They reached the far side of the town, and thought that they were possibly going to get away with it after all, but a young policeman suddenly appeared and stopped them, and he was joined by another who came up from behind on a bicycle. They would not listen to any stories, both were armed, and resistance or flight were temporarily out of the question.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">This was at approximately 2100 hrs on Thursday 14th May, almost exactly 17 days since they broke out of camp. The total distance walked was approximately 275 miles, which made an average of just over 16 miles covered per night. Their objective on the Swiss frontier was approximately 70 miles away.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Danny, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Just like that, their walk was over.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I was awake at 3:30 this morning, and walking by 4. I wanted to try navigating Gez and Hugh’s night-time landscape: a last chance to experience some of the major differences between our paths.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">There was no moon, and the fields beyond the town were immediately dark. Glint of stars above, the first I’d seen in over a week. Sounds to each side of the track, branches giving way to animals spooked by my passage. Unsure of the exact terrain, every footstep was an act of concentration. When the railroad appeared, the weak starlight seemed stretched thin over the tracks, faint parallel lines just visible enough to follow. I walked inside this path briefly, but the spacing between the sleepers shortened my steps unnaturally. Through the trees, a dog barked, a light turned on. This was a new landscape, one in which the price for safe passage was unending alertness and general suspicion.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Leaving the railway, I picked up a cycle path. The sky grew lighter as the temperature continued to drop. The sun was a long time reaching me in the valley, and when I stopped to rest I found that the cold had drained the strength from my fingers. It took several minutes of contortion just to undo the two buckles on my pack. This hour, in which light finally begins to return to the world, was also an urgent cue for Gez and Hugh to seek cover and darkness: as the land became visible, they had to become invisible. But heat returns to the land later than light, and they would have been forced into hiding at the coldest possible moment. The counterintuitive shielding of their cold and tired bodies from the growing light and warmth must have felt especially cruel.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I passed Calw mid-morning, and saw the valley where they took a wrong turn. This landscape is deceptive, and would have been near impossible to navigate with their equipment in the darkness. I paused for lunch on a hill above the town: three bread rolls filled with fresh ham and cheese. Just the fillings (ham and cheese) of this meal, one of several I took today, were approximately the same volume of Gez and Hugh’s entire daily ration. The hunger after 17 days of this, combined with intense exertion and lack of sleep is unimaginable.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">In the final few hours of the walk, I experienced an unusual awareness. I felt Gez’s presence in two incarnations at once. In one, he was an exhausted young officer, determined but gaunt, close to his limit. Leading the way, I glanced behind several times as if to encourage him:&nbsp;<em>not much further to go now</em>. In the other he was the grandfather of my youth: a firm hand on my shoulder, offering the same encouragement to me.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I reached Wildberg - the final destination of this walk - in the early afternoon. I’ve completed the walk, and managed to keep the same pace as Gez and Hugh. Tomorrow, I’ll post some of Gez’s final thoughts alongside a couple of my own.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><br></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Note: Gez’s phrase “Keartland had very little seat left in his trousers” is probably my favourite linguistic moment in his report.</h1></content:encoded>