---
layout: post
title: "Day 1: Warburg to Zierenberg"
---
<h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>GERALD, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Outside, a quick dash had to be made to another ditch about 6ft from the wire. Keartland and Williams were still in this, in full view of, and very close to the outside guards as they came on duty; but here the psychological fact that a German posten almost invariably looks inwards, not outwards, as he walks along the wire, played its part. It was now almost dark, but the moon was shining, and after about an hour’s crawl among some piles of timber and a few sheds, a partly completed hut was reached, where outer camouflaged clothing was removed, packs adjusted etc. Everyone then shook hands all round and the two pairs parted company, Wallace-Terry and Ruffel heading north [and Williams and Keartland heading south].</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">On the first night out Keartland and Williams were able to make fairly good time, travelling mostly by roads and skirting two villages, eventually reaching ZIERENBERG, about 25km away, just before daylight. They remained on a hill above the town during the day. The cover was not good here, but fortunately the day was fine and they were able to get dry and scrape the mud (from the drain) off themselves and their clothing.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>DANNY, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Oflag VIB doesn’t seem to have changed much. A series of long, low, numbered buildings surround a small&nbsp;<em>platz</em>, itself flanked by a central compound which, the&nbsp;<em>hausmeister </em>informed me, has probably stood since the war. On the surface, the main differences are the gates, which are new and open, and the inhabitants, who are not prisoners of war but refugees. Arguably though, there isn’t always a clear-cut distinction between the two.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Since 2015, Oflag has been used as “temporary” housing for people seeking asylum in Germany. Although most of the refugees have now left the site, around 100 people remain, some of whom have been there for years.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Previously, Oflag had served as a post-war military barracks before it was abandoned some time in the 1990s, and the place is consequently in pretty poor shape. Paint peels from external walls. Windows and doors are boarded up. You get the sense that it won’t be standing for much longer. Also that few will be sad to see it go.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">My exit from Oflag was nowhere near as dramatic as Gerald and Hugh’s, part of which is reproduced above. On a beautiful spring morning, I simply walked out the front gate. The freedom I have to undertake this adventure stands not only in contrast to Gerald and Hugh, but to today’s inhabitants of their former prison. I’m lucky.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Close to the end of today’s 27km hike, I believe I found the “hill above the town” mentioned in Gerald’s notes. Walking through a forest halfway up this hill I was struck by a powerful sense of familiarity. I very nearly expected to stumble across two muddy young men sleeping beneath their coats, or to catch a glimpse of a boot ducking behind a tree. I held my breath; listened for the telltale sounds of a stealthy retreat across the forest floor. I heard only the birds.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Though it’s impossible to know with certainty, I feel strongly that they were in that exact place. It was like I’d just missed them.</h1>