---
layout: post
title: "Day 9: Münzenberg to Friedberg"
---
<content:encoded><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Gerald, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">It was also decided not to adopt train-jumping, or any other form of transport, except as an absolute last resort. Keartland could speak Afrikaans and Williams a little French and if [they were] accosted by Germans, the intention was to say that they were Belgian workers, a constant study of local geography being maintained in order to bolster the story to be told.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Danny, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">My phone is completely cooked. It’s been a shock to see how much I had been relying on it, and how much more difficult everything is without a GPS in my pocket and the internet at my fingertips (I am typing this from an internet cafe in Friedberg on a very alien-feeling keyboard; it is like I’ve timewarped back to 2001).</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Without a phone to rely on, “a study of local geography” about sums up my last two days. I brought with me two large maps at 1:150,000 scale (for reference, look at your palm, relaxed; a day´s walk is about the distance between the points of your thumb and little finger). They are perfect for planning in a general sense before a trip (when the details of topography don’t matter), or after a trip, when looking back on a walk and feeling good about your achievement. Yet they are almost useless for actually navigating the complex patchwork of fields, cycle tracks, back-roads and paths that I’ve been traversing. Yesterday’s walk was at least 5KM longer than it should have been due to my inability to figure out how to navigate with these maps.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I had a stroke of luck this morning, though. The owner of my <em>pension</em> had a map of the area at 1:50,000, which he generously gave me. I am now totally reliant on this piece of paper until I can get my phone repaired in Frankfurt. Navigating with a paper map, it turns out, is absolutely wonderful. With no compass, I’ve had to be much more aware of my surroundings and my movements through them. It adds a dimension of problem-solving to the day, which,  is deeply satisfying (when it all works out).</h1></content:encoded>