---
layout: post
title: "Day 4: Niederbeisheim to Kirchheim"
---
<content:encoded><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>GERALD, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">On reaching the junction of four autobahns, 35 miles south of KASSEL, it was decided after consultation to take the most westerly branch, which led through FRANKFURT, MANNHEIM and KARLSRUHE.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">At the end of the fourth night’s march Keartland was in a pretty bad way, with stomach trouble thought to have been caused by drinking some bad water. On top of this it began to snow soon after daylight and continued for most of that day (1st May). Williams was able to build a shelter of pine brushwood which served also as a hiding place. Both suffered from the cold and got no sleep that day.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>DANNY, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I was all ready to write about my own physical travails – blisters, numb shoulders, sore knees and the rest – but I’ve just read Gez’s report. The fact is, I’m not hungry, I’ve just enjoyed a beer, and I’ll get a good sleep tonight (I’ve found that it usually takes 3 nights before a “proper” sleep can be had in a tent, and tonight is night number 4).</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">While Gez and Hugh were mainly following the autobahn at this stage, I’ve been tracking a parallel route through the countryside. The landscape has no truly remarkable features, but in totality it is undeniably&nbsp;<em>pleasant</em>. There’s a feeling of balance to it all: the tiny&nbsp;<em>dorfs </em>(often no more than a few houses), practically arranged at the bottom of what could generously be described as valleys; the green wheat fields punctured occasionally by brilliantly white early blossoms of Hawthorn trees, sensibly placed. The best moments of the trip have occurred when arriving at crest of a hill to look out on such a scene, the spring breeze giving everything a kind of unhurried animation. The worst have been slogging through soft and muddy machinery tracks in the wooded uplands. This is perilous, tedious terrain for the hiker, especially one burdened with a heavy pack.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I’m camped close to Kirchheim, which is the “junction of four autobahns” Gez mentions. So far, we’ve followed a line almost directly south. Tomorrow, we strike out to the west.</h1></content:encoded>