---
layout: post
title: "Day 2: Zierenberg to Guxhagen"
---
<content:encoded><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>GERALD, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">On the 2nd night they continued following the road south from Zierenberg, passed through the village of EHLEN and at about 2030 hrs a civilian on a bicycle overtook them, dismounted and began questioning. The Belgian worker story seemed to work reasonably well – at least as a delaying action – but he did not seem quite satisfied and continued talking with them and chatting, evidently intending to make further enquiries at the next village. After about 10 minutes they branched off a small track to the left, leaving the civilian and continued all night across country in a SE direction, finally reaching another hill SW of KASSEL, close to the town and just above NORDHAUSEN.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>DANNY, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">As you can see, Gerald and Hugh’s first encounter with a local seems to have aroused suspicion on both sides. Happily for me, my first experience was the opposite. Moritz and his parents, Hubertos and Connie, put me up the night before I began. Moritz took the time to show me the local sites, Connie somehow created 3 delicious meals in the space of half a day, and Hubertos shared the story of his father in WW2, who like Gerald spent most of the war as a prisoner. He was detained in Canada, having served with Rommel’s forces in Egypt, and only made it back to Germany several years after the war had finished.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Today, I passed through EHLEN, down the bike lane and off across country, just like Gerald and Hugh. Due to the scarcity of campsites, I’ve had to leave them about 15 kilometers back, in NORDHAUSEN. I will keep an ear out for them later on, stealing along in the moonlight.</h1></content:encoded>
