---
layout: post
title: Who? Why? etc
---
<content:encoded><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><a href="https://images.squarespace-cdn.com/content/5ca5b6eeb10f25f9e2496312/1555068641593-RUEDG0GAG0K1ZKK606DN/?content-type=image%2Fjpeg" target="_blank">My grandfather</a>, Gerald Williams († 2007) was born and raised on the remote east coast of New Zealand’s North Island. <a href="https://images.squarespace-cdn.com/content/5ca5b6eeb10f25f9e2496312/1555068633321-7S5O1KM26FYHB0WT26JP/?content-type=image%2Fjpeg" target="_blank">In 1939</a>, Gerald joined Britain’s Royal Air Force on a short service commission with 11 other New Zealanders. Of that group, he was the only one to survive the war.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">His story, like so many from that time, is extraordinary. From crash-landing in a field in France when a navigational error drained his aircraft of its fuel reserves; to a nerve-shredding escape from a <a href="https://images.squarespace-cdn.com/content/5ca5b6eeb10f25f9e2496312/1555068655617-KM3HY531UEB5LPLYNKDF/?content-type=image%2Fpng" target="_blank">POW camp</a> made by crawling under the front gate during the changing of the guards; it is full of risk and sacrifice at a scale almost unimaginable today. </h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Gerald and Hugh’s walk across Germany ended with recapture a mere 3 days from freedom and probable safe passage back to Britain to rejoin the war effort. We can be grateful that they didn’t quite make it. The mortality rate for British airmen in WW2 was shockingly high (one study estimates that as many as 65% died). Had Gerald re-entered active service with 4 years of the war still to come, he would probably not have survived.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">My walk, named “At Large In Germany” after the title of Gerald’s original report, is a personal journey: an opportunity for me to get closer to the memory of my grandfather by sharing a small part of his remarkable experience, 77 years later.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">There are some major differences between Gerald and Hugh’s experience and the approach I’m taking. </h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>First</strong>, to avoid detection, it was only possible for them to travel at night. I will be doing this walk during daylight hours. </h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Second</strong>, they walked almost exclusively on the autobahn, leaving it whenever they encountered traffic and to find shelter during the day. I will be walking as near to their route as possible, but I’ll avoid the autobahn for reasons of legality and safety. </h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Third</strong>, they slept in bushes, shrubs or barns – whatever shelter was available at the time. I will carry a tent and sleep in campsites when I can, but since the path passes through heavily developed parts of Germany, I’ll also be looking for accommodation under a roof when camping isn’t an option.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Finally</strong>, they were forced to survive on a meagre, unsustainable diet, which led Gerald, already light after months on prison rations, to drop a further 8kg. I see no sense in recreating this aspect of their experience, and will be eating as much food as I require.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">The main parallels between their walk and mine are the time of year – April – and the speed. If possible, I intend to keep pace with their progress over the 17 days. We don’t know <em>exactly</em> where Gerald and Hugh spent every night, but we’re able to use the information in Gerald’s report to form a pretty clear overall picture (for instance, they spent the first night camped above Zierenberg, the second night somewhere near Nordhausen, that they’d reached a certain autobahn junction on the 6th night, and so on).</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Frankly, even with all the advantages listed above, keeping pace with these two is going to be tough. It calls for an average of around 30km/day for 17 days, with no time off for rest.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I’m looking forward to the challenge.</h1><h1 data-rte-preserve-empty="true" style="white-space:pre-wrap;"></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"> – Danny Pemberton</h1><h1 data-rte-preserve-empty="true" style="white-space:pre-wrap;"></h1></content:encoded>