---
layout: post
title: "Day 12: Darmstadt-Wixen to Heppenheim"
---
<content:encoded><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Gerald, 1942:</strong> </h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Although the packs were obviously becoming gradually lighter as time went on, this was never noticed, and even on the last night’s march, they seemed to feel exactly the same weight as they did at the start.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Danny, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">It seems my second round of weight-reduction has paid off, as I covered 40km today pretty easily. I had the advantage of dead-flat country for the first time all trip (this also made today the least interesting day, the route passing through endless suburbia along a southbound railway track). It feels a shame to have to take this straight path, as it’s in the shade of the Odenwald mountains, which rose to the west sometime after midday. Soon afterwards the foothills were covered with vineyards. From my surburban standpoint, these hills are alluring, but I‘m not sure I could deal with adding any more distance and altitude to my route. Besides, today’s pavement-pounding is much more in line with Gez and Hugh’s experience of walking the autobahn.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I’ve had three sets of generous and interesting hosts over the last three nights: Daniela and Bernhardt in Friedburg, Franz and Hania in Frankfurt, and last night, Thea and Fritz in Darmstadt-Wixen. In each case, stimulating conversations have taken priority over sleeping. I’d like to find the time to reflect on these connections in the coming days. Right now, though, I’m exhausted. And I hear the local wine is worth a taste.</h1></content:encoded>