---
layout: post
title: "Day 5: Kirchheim to Alsfeld"
---
<content:encoded><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Gerald, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">It was discovered that walking on the autobahn (by night) was the best way of travelling. There was never any footpath or cycle track, but it was usually possible (when quietness was necessary) to walk just off the edge of the concrete, though most of the walking in open country was done on the actual autobahn itself. Pedestrians and cyclists appeared to be forbidden, only two of the latter being encountered, both being without lights, and one actually sheared off when he saw the two fugitives. The majority of the traffic, which was mostly at night and never considerable, consisted of heavy transport lorries, often with one or two trailers attached. Whenever a vehicle approached, Keartland and Williams moved off to one side, into a ditch or down the embankment (if it were built up) and lay flat in the shadows from the headlights. This procedure was followed for the next 200 miles, the autobahn only being left once, except for the finding of hiding places, for which they never had to go more than a mile away.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Danny, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">The very idea of snow, mentioned by Gez yesterday, seems from a different epoch. All day today, I’ve sweltered under blue skies with temperatures in the mid-20s.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Last night I rose at around 2am to a landscape transformed under the full moon, and was struck by how completely different the experience of moving through this landscape by night must have been. In his book&nbsp;<em>The Old Ways</em>, Robert Macfarlane describes a walk through fresh snow at night:</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">“At first sight the field seemed flawless, floe country. Then I set out across it and started to see the signs. The snow was densely printed with the tracks of birds and animals – archives of the hundreds of journeys made since the snow had stopped... The snow was overwhelmingly legible. Each print-trail seemed like a plot that could be read backwards in time, a series of allusions to events since ended.”</h1></content:encoded>