---
layout: post
title: General Observations
---
<content:encoded><![CDATA[&nbsp;<h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Gerald, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Throughout the trip an average of only 3 or 4 hours sleep per day was possible, as even on the days when it was fine, the first four or five hours after the halt were spent in violent convulsions of shivering which shook the whole body and it was often not till mid-day that any degree of warmth, and with it sleep, were obtained. This also caused extreme stiffness in the legs and feet which made the first few hours of each night’s march very painful.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Danny, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">“Convulsions of shivering”, Gez? That’s as far away from our experience today as you can get. Susy has joined me from Berlin for two days’ walking, and she’s timed it well. Today, we covered a relatively leisurely 21km in 25-degree weather, wishing for shade for much of the afternoon.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">It’s appropriate that I’m not alone for this entire walk, as companionship was such a central part of Gez and Hugh’s experience. Hugh was South African, and returned there at the end of the war. To the best of my knowledge, he and Gez only met one more time after that. Growing up, my family made optimistic plans to bring Hugh to New Zealand, perhaps for Gez’s 80th birthday, but the stars did not align. Regardless, it was clear from the way Gez talked about Hugh that the two shared a bond of remarkable depth.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">If you’ve been reading along so far, you’ll know that I’ve found it easy to marvel at the physical scale of the of their walk (from my cushion-assed 2019-perspective, it’s outlandish; all but impossible). By following in their footsteps, I’m able to get a very small sense of their physical achievement, as it’s pounded into the blisters on my feet and stitched into the knots in my shoulders. But the emotional bond that comes from completely trusting another person with your life, just as you are likewise responsible for theirs – that’s something I’ll have to imagine.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I wish I’d asked Gez more about this bond. Probably, though, it’s the type of thing not easily put into words. Some things just have to be lived to be known.</h1>]]></content:encoded>