---
layout: post
title: General Observations
---
<content:encoded><![CDATA[&nbsp;<h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Gerald, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">The best type of cover was found to be young plantations with thick undergrowth, but these were not always available and days were spent in ditches covered with brown paper and dead grass; in holes in the ground covered with rubbish; and inside piles of dead leaves on the ground. The greatest difficulty was found in continuing on at the end of a night’s march until safe cover was found, the temptation to “flop down” in the first spot which looked like a hiding place being almost irresistible, both officers being slightly “punch drunk” at this stage.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Danny, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">We’re camped just outside Grünberg, a beautiful town of medieval half-timbered houses. It’s Easter Sunday, which perhaps explains why the entire countryside has seemed in a deep and hazy slumber. We met a few cyclists today, but for the most part people seemed to be avoiding unnecessary expenditure in the unseasonal heat. Moving as we often did from shady forest paths into open fields today, the change in temperature was felt as a shock: dry, instantly energy-sapping. The land accumulates the heat all day, and there is no respite until the evening. Much of the late afternoon walk is spent with hat pulled low to keep the sun from the eyes, observing nothing but feet on the path.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Tomorrow, Susy returns to Berlin. I’ll turn south and begin the two-day walk to Frankfurt.&nbsp;</h1>]]></content:encoded>