---
layout: post
title: General Observations
---
<content:encoded><![CDATA[&nbsp;<h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Gerald, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">The eighth day was spent in a wood, about a mile from the autobahn and close to the town of BUTZBACH. When about to begin the usual evening “meal” at 1900 hrs a German Unteroffizier (corporal) and a girl came through the wood, presumably looking for a piece of thick cover such as K and W had selected (though obviously for a quite different reason) and almost walked on top of them. The Unteroffizier was very surprised and at once suspicious, and deciding to put business before pleasure, began questioning, and asked if they were Russians (neither officer had shaved since leaving the camp). </h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">The Belgian worker story did not seem to convince him and when having asked if they could speak French and been told that Williams could, he began talking in fluent French (which quickly showed Williams up) and then became quite worked up, informed them that they were under arrest and proceeded to try and march them off. Fortunately he was in walking out uniform and carried no small arms. Keartland and Williams “marched off” all right and quickly broke into a run, leaving the Unteroffizier in a rage and shouting as only a German can, with the girl standing beside him. Fairly good cover was found at the far end of the wood, where they remained safely until darkness fell.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Danny, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">This is going to be a short one from me - I dropped my phone in a bowl of water this morning (OK, it was a toilet bowl) and have had to instantly adjust to paper maps, road signs and an under-developed sense of direction. I am only able to type this because someone has kindly let me borrow their ipad. I suspect i will be out of contact until Frankfurt (Wednesday evening). Wish me luck. I truly need it.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">(How great is Gez’s story from today, though?) </h1>]]></content:encoded>