---
layout: post
title: General Observations
---
<content:encoded><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Gerald, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">The River Neckar was reached, just about MANNHEIM, on 10th May (13th night out). On this and every succeeding night it rained. Difficulty had been experienced in finding water this night and both were beginning to suffer from thirst. The non-moon period had now begun, and as the bridge was approached, a light was shone on them from what looked like a small tower dead in front and a man called out to halt. Both ran back down the autobahn, and then down the embankment on the N. side. The man followed and fired two revolver shots in their direction, which went wide. The river was finally reached about a mile higher up, where they were able to quench their thirst and fill water bottles.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">It was decided to continue up the river in search of another bridge and one was found 3 or 4 miles higher up, a village being situated at each end. After travelling through a third village and travelling by various roads, the autobahn was finally rejoined.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Danny, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Rain for me too, Gez, both today and yesterday. Luckily, I was spared the worst of it thanks to an old umbrella Fritz insisted I take.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">This morning, I decided to leave the pavement behind and head into the hills. I came across the&nbsp;<em>Blutenweg</em>, the “blossom way” that traverses the lower foothills of the Odenwald mountains from Darmstadt to Heidelberg. With the slight increase of altitude came a new perspective: vineyards and villages in the foreground, the autobahn streaking across the middle distance, and the flat expanse of the Rhine valley dissolving into the rain clouds behind. Smoke-stacks and skyscrapers marked out Mannheim, right at the edge of visibility. In the opposite direction, higher up the mountains, medieval watchtowers strung a crumbling path through the hills; an outsized trail of breadcrumbs.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">But it was that moving stream of vehicles on the A5 that captured my attention. The oldest in the region, it’s the one Gez and Hugh had been following for close to 200km by this point. Walking alongside it from my elevated position in the foothills felt like picking up a thread.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I’m on track according to my schedule, but have fallen slightly behind Gez and Hugh. I’ll cross the River Neckar first thing tomorrow. In the coming days, they really pick up the pace (including a record 25-mile march in one night). Good grief.</h1></content:encoded>