---
layout: post
title: General Observations
---
<content:encoded><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Gerald, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Just before reaching PFORZHEIM on the following night the autobahn was left and they travelled across country, got into Pforzheim West railway station and picked up a single track railway running south in a river valley through CALW , NAGOLD, to ROTTWEIL and TUTTLINGEN. The country here was steep and very confusing in the pitch darkness and rain, but by keeping to the railroad, which was very bad for walking on, and walking through a tunnel, they managed to keep in the right direction. They were now in the Black Forest.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Daylight found them among a series of small villages and men were already about on their way to work. The only thing to do was to keep on going until suitable cover could be found. A few “Guten morgens” were exchanged, but just when some good cover was looming up one man became suspicious and started following. He was joined by another who got out of a car and the two eventually gave chase. Keartland and Williams made off up the side of the valley, which was here heavily wooded, finally succeeded in eluding their pursuers and in getting a little much needed rest, both more or less in a state of collapse. Everything, including themselves, was sodden with moisture, the usual fits of shivering were experienced and sleep was impossible.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Later in the day they climbed to about 800ft above the valley floor and managed, by following paths, to make another 2 miles in the right direction, before descending to the valley again in the evening to continue along the road, which, together with the railway, continually crossed and re-crossed the river.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Danny, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I am typing this from a hotel room, not the undergrowth of the Black Forest. After a run-in with a nest of ticks last May, Germany’s woods have taken on a sinister edge in my mind. It’s true that a bite rarely results in lyme disease, but here in the south incidence rates are the highest in the country. I’ve decided it’s not a risk I’m prepared to take.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I’ve spent the last 300km tacking and gybing alongside the autobahn, finally leaving it today in Pforzheim. Seen from above, my path probably resembles a small boat reliant on favorable winds, next to the ocean-freighter wake of the autobahn following the path of least resistance. The autobahn is a dizzying flow of movement and noise, and just standing next to it requires a kind of spin-stiffening, a resistance to the heavy current of whipped-up air. And so, in many of the points of this journey where the two paths would show a connection – my digital GPS track crossing over or above Gez’s hand-drawn autobahn line – I’ve instead felt more like a small boat; buffeted, small, out of place.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Which is why picking up Gez and Hugh’s “single track railway” a few kilometers back was special. There’s no mistaking which track Gez describes. I followed it over a hill and into the Nagold valley, sometimes walking side by side, sometimes directly above. I saw the tunnel that Gez and Hugh must have staggered through on that dark and freezing night. On the outskirts of the city, I took a shortcut through a cemetery, noting that many of the graves contained spaces for family members from multiple generations. I considered how quickly our ideas about land and landscape as a means of deriving meaning and identity have changed. For all that he was a central figure in my life, I don’t know with certainty the land where Gez’s ashes are scattered, or where a headstone stands – my connection to his memory is separated from the land.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Tomorrow is the last day. It will likely be the most difficult, too: 38km, but with over 1,100m of ascent and a similar downhill. My compromise for not sleeping rough tonight will be to rise at 3am and spend the first few hours of the walk in darkness, alongside the shadows of two weary stragglers, much easier to see away from the whip and rush of the autobahn.</h1></content:encoded>