---
layout: post
title: General Observations
---
<content:encoded><![CDATA[&nbsp;<h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Gerald, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">On the 15th night the point (just out of KARLSRUHE) where the autobahn forks, was reached, the branch which led to STUTTGART being followed. Just past here they were made painfully aware of their lowered physical condition when a small incline was encountered (almost the whole of the last 150 miles having been over dead flat country). Breath came in short gasps and walking had to be reduced to half the usual pace. Nevertheless, a record distance of 25 miles was covered that night, though this did necessitate continuing a little after daylight.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Unfortunately, at this stage the good resolutions made at the start never to move except in darkness, and which were rigidly adhered to at first, began occasionally to go by the board. The long waits in the evenings, waiting for complete darkness to come, became very difficult to endure and the temptation to push on a few miles after daylight was very great. A certain degree of loss of judgement was present, and both officers agreed afterwards that they were affected mentally as well as physically.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Danny, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I’m staying in Pfinztal, a small town northeast of the autobahn forks described by Gez. Today’s landscape didn’t provide much in the way of visual stimulation, although I have at last left the densely populated Rhine valley behind. I’ve covered 440km at an average of slightly over 29km per day. I’m now roughly 60km from Wildberg, the ultimate destination of this walk.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Last night I took 8 hours of sleep, the first time all trip I’ve had such a good rest. Both my spirits and energy were refreshed today. The effects of sleep deficiency compound exponentially from day to day, and I can scarcely imagine the state Gez and Hugh must have been in at this stage of their trip. His allusion to their “lowered physical condition” above is bad enough, but all the more chilling if you know that Gez was a man much more prone to understatement than hyperbole.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">At Pforzheim, Gez and Hugh’s path finally leaves the autobahn and follows the valley of the River Nagold southward through the Black Forest. If the weather allows, I plan spend tomorrow night “sleeping rough” in the forest before the final march to Wildberg.</h1>]]></content:encoded>