---
layout: post
title: General Observations
---
<content:encoded><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Gerald, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">About 4 miles further on [from Frankfurt], when coming out from under one of the numerous road bridges which cross above the autobahn, a man, who looked like a night watchman, suddenly walked out from the left side of the autobahn, calling on them to halt, and — with difficulty — holding on a leash a large Alsatian dog, which was barking furiously and gnashing its teeth. Keartland and Williams immediately ran as fast as possible along the autobahn in a southerly direction ie. towards Switzerland. Fortunately the man did not shoot immediately or give chase very far, and more important still, he managed to retain his hold on the dog, while firing a few shots in our direction, but it was pitch dark.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>Danny, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">When Susy left for Berlin several days ago she took with her my tent, cooker and cup. I imagined that losing these “big items” would bring my back and shoulders swift relief and allow me to comfortably cover the big distances in the days ahead. I was wrong.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Here’s Robert MacFarlane talking about the numbing effects of a long walk:</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">“The ‘skull cinema’ is what plays on loop when you're very tired of (by) walking, and it’s when some awful little fragment of Tom &amp; Jerry, or Upstairs Downstairs, or some other televisual swill, will find its way onto the projector and will simply repeat-play, over these last, desperate and mindless miles”.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Lately, my own skull cinema screening-time has crept earlier and earlier. Since this is no doubt related to fatigue, which is partly caused by my unreasonably heavy pack, I’ve spent hours mentally cataloging each item I’m carrying, wondering what I can live without.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Before this trip, I dismissed people who shear off a toothbrush handle to save a few grams of weight as indulgent fanatics. I’m now one of them.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Picture this scene from earlier today: me in a public&nbsp;<em>platz </em>in Frankfurt, squeezing a carefully-estimated amount of toothpaste into a waste-bin, leaving exactly enough for the remaining 12 brushes of this walk. Then I found a post office and sent my scuffs, used paper maps, spare battery, comb, and a whole array of other unnecessary tidbits back to Berlin.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I’ve dropped this last ballast just in time: tomorrow, at 38km, is the biggest day of the trip.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">P.S just to tie this back to Gez’s notes somehow – I met an utterly gorgeous red-haired border collie called Larry yesterday, then spent a good couple of hours thinking how much better this whole business would be if I had a dog with me.</h1></content:encoded>