---
layout: post
title: General Observations
---
<content:encoded><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>GERALD, 1942</strong></h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>i. (interactions with locals) </strong>The attitude of the German population, from what little contact was made with it, appeared to be suspicious, and once suspicion was aroused, definitely hostile.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>ii. (companionship)&nbsp;</strong>Both officers agreed afterwards that 2 was the ideal number for a trip of this kind, especially from the point of view of keeping up morale. When one was in a bad way or feeling particularly low the other was usually able to give help and encouragement (and vice versa), as can be seen from the account.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>iii. (lowness of morale and physical condition)&nbsp;</strong>The main causes of lowness of morale were afterwards considered to be:</h2><ul data-rte-list="default"><li><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Low physical condition, especially towards the end of the trip, with consequent weakened resistance.</h2></li></ul><ul data-rte-list="default"><li><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">The ever-present feeling of a hunted animal, with every man’s hand turned against you.</h2></li><li><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Ever-increasing hunger, with sometimes thirst as well.</h2></li></ul><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>iv. (smoking)</strong> Keartland was a non-smoker, and though Williams (a moderate smoker) carried cigarettes, he never had the slightest inclination to use them, and when he did try one, one evening, it was thrown away in disgust, less than half finished.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>v. (pack weight)&nbsp;</strong>Although the packs were obviously becoming gradually lighter as time went on, this was never noticed, and even on the last night’s march, they seemed to feel exactly the same weight as they did at the start.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>vi. (diet)&nbsp;</strong>Both officers complained of constipation, and especially in the case of Williams, the blood became in very bad condition and any small scratches developed into festering sores which grew in size, and took a long time to heal afterwards even under proper treatment. It was decided that in another attempt of this nature, more dried fruit would be carried.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>vii. (body weight)&nbsp;</strong>On the trip Williams lost 18lb in weight and Keartland about 10lb.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>viii. (clothing)&nbsp;</strong>The heavy type Army boots used – though previously worn in and well greased – were definitely unsuitable, causing considerable bruising of the Achilles tendon, and Williams had to cut his boot away at the back to relieve this.</h2><h2 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>ix. (reasons for recapture)&nbsp;</strong>The main reasons for failure were afterwards considered to be the weather, and the state of slight mental unbalance finally brought about by this and the lack of suitable dry clothing. Both officers considered that if each had carried even a light ground sheet, and with more suitable footwear (such as rubber-soled shoes or light rubber-soled boots) and better maps, they would, despite the weather encountered, at least have been able to reach the frontier.</h2><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>DANNY, 2019</strong></h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">What you see from Gez is a kind of general summary. Below, I’ve added some thoughts to his points. For the record, my walk covered 506km over 17 days at an average of 30km/day. Gez’s estimation is around 445km. This can be explained by the fact that their time on the autobahn was direct, while my path needed to work around the towns, fields, woods and other obstacles. Also, they probably weren’t able to accurately account for the distance they spent “off the road” each night while searching for a hiding spot. It’s possible that their “real” distance was higher than Gez’s estimate.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>i. (interactions with locals)&nbsp;</strong>This is one of the biggest differences in our walks. I spent 5 nights couchsurfing with local hosts, and in each case I left the next morning reinvigorated by these interactions.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>ii. (companionship)&nbsp;</strong>I wrote about companionship on Day 6, because I think it is one of the central themes of the walk. It led to a bond between Gez and Hugh that far outlasted the walk, the camps, and the war.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">In 2019, for better and worse, you’re never really “alone” (as distinct from being lonely, which is another topic). With the exception of a 3-days outage after I dropped my phone down a toilet, I was able to reach family and friends at any time and to receive encouragement from them. But, I believe that these digital interactions are still a proxy for the real thing.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>iii. (lowness of morale and physical condition)</strong>Feeling like a hunted, starving animal – I won’t pretend to be able to relate to any of that. Regarding physical condition: I had been training for a half marathon for almost 3 months, and two days before the walk I ran it in 92 minutes. I therefore had a significant physical advantage over Gez and Hugh. Even so, I found the first 5 days extremely challenging, to the point where I thought I probably wouldn’t complete the walk. This was mainly due to the surprising amount of ascent and descent combined with the pack weight and distance required, but not giving my body enough time to recover from the race also played a part. I was helped by two relatively small walks on Days 6 and 7, and by being able to get rid of unnecessary items in my pack. Since then, my body seems to have become accustomed to walking long distances, and a 40km day doesn’t feel like too big of a deal.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">I’ve wondered a lot about the “how” question – given the lack of sleep, food, warmth and equipment, how on earth did they keep going? For one, they were young (Gez was 26). But as POWs, they wouldn’t have been able to train for walking long distances or carrying heavy packs. I think the answer is largely psychological. Gez and Hugh simply&nbsp;<em>had </em>to keep going. No matter how bad it got, the only other option (turning themselves in) was always worse.&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">Consider this: their bid for freedom would have felt like the&nbsp;<em>single most important thing they could be doing with their lives</em>. This belief, or something like it, bolstered and upheld by their companionship, seems to me to have endowed them with super-abilities. Their walk is a physical achievement, sure, but perhaps we should consider it mainly as an achievement of the human spirit.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>iv. (smoking) </strong>This is a little surprising – I would have thought that while shivering in a damp wood after 15 days on the run, a cigarette might have offered some solace. Perhaps they’d reached a point of exhaustion where the body overrules the brain? For me: no darts, either.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>v. (pack weight)&nbsp;</strong>That they didn’t notice the weight reduction on their backs speaks to their physical condition. In their “homemade rucksacks”, Gez and Hugh each carried around 7.5kg of food, rationed to last 24 days. Gez also lists “water bottle, spare clothing, first aid kit, soap, towel, shaving kit”. I estimate that his pack weight was around 7.5kg (food) + 2.5kg (contents of pack) + 0.5kg (pack weight) + 0.5kg (weight of water) = 11kg. With some ruthless culling, I managed to get my pack weight down to 10kg by the middle of the walk. At the start of the walk, it was 16kg plus water. If I hadn’t been able to offload this weight, I don’t think I would have made it through the walk. It’s worth noting that I was walking with a modern pack with hip harnesses and lumbar support – doing it with a homemade rucksack would be much less pleasant.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>vi. (diet)&nbsp;</strong>The outcome described by Gez is not surprising when you look at their rations, which were mainly a “concentrated mixture of chocolate, margarine, oatmeal, sugar, cocoa, Bemax and Glucose D”, with some extra “biscuits, cheese and raisins/dates”. For my part, I essentially eaten anything with plenty of carbs (bread, pasta, potatoes), and plenty of eggs, nuts and sugar (mainly fruit and chocolate). I’ve also been very reliant on caffeine. In other words: whatever I’ve wanted to eat or drink, I’ve been able to find. Lucky for me!</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>vii. (body weight) </strong>Given the cold, lack of sleep and food, I’m surprised they didn’t lose more weight. It could that they didn’t have much to lose in the first place, living as they had been on POW rations).&nbsp;</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;">There are no scales where I’m staying, but when I last weighed-in after day 9, I had lost 2kg. I don’t think I’ve lost much more since then, and I expect that this weight will return pretty quickly.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>viii. (clothing)&nbsp;</strong>The blisters I described during the first few days took care of themselves. They’re still there but, didn’t give me much discomfort. I did the entire walk in my regular road running shoes, which, with the exception of the muddy forest tracks in the first few days, were perfect.</h1><h1 style="white-space:pre-wrap;"><strong>ix. (reasons for recapture)&nbsp;</strong>Given everything they achieved, I don’t doubt Gez’s assertion that with just a little more luck/better equipment, they would have been able to reach the frontier. Exactly what would have happened next is less certain. I’ve talked with several Germans about the Swiss border in WW2, and they expressed skepticism that they would have been welcomed over. They would have probably have had to attempt to sneak across the border, which might have meant trying to swim across the Rhine, or under a fence/over a wall. Given the physical and mental state they would have been in by this point, the border would have been a very risky place for them.</h1></content:encoded>